Gephi
=====
A node is a terminal or other point in a computer network where a message can be created, received, or transmitted(Encarta, 2009) in this case between people who I am friends with on facebook. The ties in this graph represent the strength of the relationships between myself and my friends on facebook. Influence is not shown through facebook but on other social networking sites, one friend may buy something and it may encourage you to buy something they just bought. Bridging is a social tie that connects two different groups in a social network for example, a friend who I was in school with in France ended up being in the same university as me and we are connected through two different social groups. Weak ties are often associated with bridging and include acquaintances rather than close friends. Bonding refers to a social tie close to the person for example best friends or family members. Bonding is often associated with strong ties for people feel included in these groups. According to Phillip Bonacich “Indegree is a count of the number of ties directed to the node and outdegree is the number of ties that the node directs to others.When ties are associated to some positive aspects such as friendship or collaboration, indegree is often interpreted as a form of popularity, and outdegree as gregariousness.” “Betweenness centrality based on shortest paths is a standard measure of control utilized in numerous studies and implemented in all relevant software tools for network analysis.”(Brandis,U.) As told by Bavelas,A. And Sabidussi, G.;”In connected graphs there is a natural distance metric between all pairs of nodes, defined by the length of their shortest paths. The farness of a node s is defined as the sum of its distances to all other nodes, and its closeness is defined as the inverse of the farness”. Finally, “Eigenvector centrality is calculated by assessing how well connected an individual is to the parts of the network with the greatest connectivity.Individuals with high eigenvector scores have many connections, and their connections have many connections, and their connections have many connections out to the end of the network”.(Activate Networks).

	To begin my project, I used an application on facebook called Netvizz which grabbed data about my personal social networking site. I downloaded software called Gephi which turned the information I got from netvizz into a graph visualizing the network data. I messed around with Gephi to see how it worked, that I could zoom in and out and change colours within the graph as well as the background. I then used 'Force Atlas 2' to change the graph. I also turned on the modularity so that the graph would separate each section by using different colours. I removed certain nodes that did not connect to the graph which were unimportant. I used an indegree model. The graph included different communities of friends. There were friends from six different schools and colleges I had attended, relatives, family friends and people from sports clubs. A lot of my personal graph had strong interpersonal ties as I would have a few people who would know a lot of the same people as me, but then there were weak ties from people I met in a language school in Rome who were from all over the world. To show our personal gephi projects, we had to follow a certain format called Schniderman's netvizz nirvana which meant every vertex had to be visible, every vertex's degree is countable, every edge can be followed from source to destination and all clusters and outliers are identifiable. I found this format quite difficult as they're were quite a lot of nodes within my graph and I would not won't to remove any because it would not include such a big effect.

	I found this an interesting project and I believe it may be useful in the future when dealing with social networks. In my opinion, Gephi is a good skill to have.

Bibliography
Encarta® World English Dictionary [North American Edition] © & (P)2009 Microsoft Corporation.
Bonacich, P., Power and Centrality: A Family of Measures, American Journal of Sociology,1987.
Brandes, Ulrik (2008). "On variants of shortest-path betweenness centrality and their generic computation".Social Networks30: 136–145.doi:10.1016/j.socnet.2007.11.001
Alex Bavelas. Communication patterns in task-oriented groups. J. Acoust. Soc. Am, 22(6):725–730, 1950.
Sabidussi, G. (1966) The centrality index of a graph. Psychometrika 31, 581–603.
Activate Networks, Who is central to a social network? It depends on your centrality measure.,http://www.activatenetworks.net/who-is-central-to-a-social-network-it-depends-on-your-centrality-measure/, 2012, Accessed 15th October 2014.
